good morning everyone please welcome
John Glenn Z user experience technology
manager sorry well good morning it's
it's a great day and I certainly
realized that I haven't had nearly
enough sleep this week and that's
probably true for many of you but this
is session 146 and its high-level
toolbox data browser you know it's part
of our renewed interest in user
experience at apple with aqua and mac OS
10 we've been sort of stressing this
message that if you want to have great
user experience and you want to deliver
the aqua look and feel you need to adopt
system control that sort of has come
through this year and it's come through
in past years and it's particularly true
with 10 and data browser is one of those
things coming out of Apple that's that's
sort of a hybrid high level powerful new
type of control and we're going to talk
about that this morning but data browser
is going to allow you to deliver exactly
the user experience that we are
delivering in lists in finder and in
other components of the OS and it's
going to do the right thing on nine
under platinum it's going to do the
right thing on 10 under aqua so even
though it's early in the morning you
need to be taking paying close attention
to what's going on here because data
browser i think is going to allow you to
deliver a really awesome and very
consistent user experience within your
application so to get you the info on
this stuff i'd like to welcome Jim
Rawdon who's the tech lead for the list
manager replacement called data browser
good morning want to make sure you're
all awake and in the right room I want
to ask you a couple questions before I
get started now stand up instead of
shows hands how many of you have ever
used the list manager before now stand
up once this audience participation okay
now how many of you don't use it anymore
okay that's fair number all right now
I'm sure the reason for that is pretty
consistent it's kind of doesn't present
a really sophisticated interface and
it's not very robust and it has some
serious limitations I'm sure you're
using other solutions like power plants
table views and things like that data
browser is going to take care of all of
that stuff for you and present a new
user interface well an interface it's
been around for a while that hasn't been
accessible to developers so with that
here's what I'm going to cover today
basically what is the data browser thing
okay go over briefly the programming
model that uses and how you can
incorporate that into your code and how
it'll help you factor your code then
some simple usage examples get into the
coding okay what is this data browser
thing it's a control I am so I want to
emphasize that because it's actually
pretty fundamental it acts just like a
push button control or pop-up menu
control or any other control that's been
around for a long time you can send it
to size control messages move control
messages etc completely self-contained
presentation of discrete element so
anytime you're presenting say a set of
file system objects or database objects
but whatever your application does you
should seriously consider later browser
as a solution for presenting and
information it does not list manager
list manager is effectively obsolete now
it's still in carbon it's not going away
because it's too important for backward
compatibility the data browsers are
simply much much much better it does
what everyone wishes the list manager
had done all along it does it much in a
much better way it takes a totally new
programming model it does not store your
data as one of the series of limitations
of the list
enter because it tried to make
assumptions about your data and how it
should be stored and invariably those
assumptions were wrong in many cases
data browser only stores references to
your data so you can cash your data you
can store your data out on network or
file maps or whatever is appropriate for
your application the data browser only
asks for the information that it needs
to present those elements they're
currently on screen and its standard
equipment it is a very fundamental part
of tenn the finder uses it the finder
lists you is a data browser and it's
also in carbon lib on nine so you can
rely on it to present the standard list
style interface to users you don't have
to reinvent this wheel anymore and
because it's part of the finder and
Sherlock keychain access and many other
system components you can rely on the
fact that is very robust very fast and
very high performance and now with that
Jonathan is going to give you a quick
demo of exactly what does so you have a
visual image fix Jim so here we have a
sample application with data browser the
data browser control is actually
everything in this window that you say
that is not the window frame itself
you'll notice it looks exactly like the
finder no big it's not a uncommon view
and we have some sample data showing it
so data browser does everything that the
finder does you can do have disclosure
triangles so you can show more data
hierarchical data you can do column
resizing you can do column reordering
you can also data browser also supports
contextual menus and it supports
drag-and-drop all internally data order
data browser also supports several
native data types checkboxes icon in
text text only it also supports icon
only but we don't have any here it
sports date and time supports relevance
ranking and it's for
pop-up menus one of the nice things
since data browser has native data types
is that when you do things like resize
date and time the date and time format
can grow to match the sizes columns
they'd rather not only does list views
but it also does column view and in this
case it's something new to mac OS 9 but
it's not new to mac OS 10 so this
presents a comb view that is standard in
mac OS 10 you can see that it is good
for displaying hierarchical data you get
automatics traversal of aliases and also
when you click on an end node you get a
custom preview pane the content of this
custom preview pane is entirely up the
drawing of it is entirely up to you
however you do receive events so you can
have something like a push button and
even though the control is taking up the
entirety of this window you do have
certain control over the elements of
data browser so if you wanted to say
have a placard in the bottom area of the
scrollbar much like codewarrior or
bbedit have you can also change the size
of the score bar so you can have some
cut some content showing there and with
that Jim will show you how you can
incorporate data browser into your code
thank you I get the slides back thanks
all right Thank You Jonathan one thing I
like to point out that the code specific
to the data browser in that sample app
is very small on the order of 50 lines
to get the bare minimum now that
demonstration there's quite a bit more
it actually puts information in the
drag-and-drop and handle some of the
contextual menu stuff so it's a little
bit bigger than a simple app it's maybe
100 or so lines but very little a lot
more lot less than it would take to do
the same thing with list manager or any
power plant type table view or any of
the other solutions out there and it
insulates you from the details of the
presentation so just to recap there's a
fairly exhaustive list of the features
yet mostly for free I mean you have to
do a little bit where some of them you
have to turn on some bit flags set some
accessors
or and provide some routines of your own
to for instance like contextual menu you
have to provide the menu to be displayed
you have to handle the response to it
but that's pretty straightforward stuff
some key points it's designed to hold a
lot of items to 232 use 32-bit
references because the finder used it
the Finder has to display the contents
of networks and file systems tens of
thousands of items that's what this is
designed for so no more 32k data limit
or anything like that and it again it
does a lot of work for you it has
several natives display types the idea
is you provide the data the raw text the
raw icon data browser takes care of the
formatting and that list of that list
there is not complete for the native
type but it's extensible if there's a
type of display type that you want that
you think it should support let us know
and we'll see about adding it also
supports custom content so if the view
cells there are not sufficient for you
you can add your own content have more
complex information in the cells and it
will store off the user state so as user
resizes columns and reorders columns for
instance you don't have to record that
all yourself you there's a call to ask
the data browser what is that stay
they'll flatten it out you can throw it
off in a press file and load it back in
next time your application is run in
detail and it's not just for finder
anymore this is a screenshot from the 10
finder that is a data browser some
additional features that it supports
that are not necessarily used by the
finder our variable height rose so you
can have individual items have their own
unique row height and it tracks with the
item it is not table index based so as
Yuri sort or you add items that item
stays that height that you set it to
it'll take care of right-to-left support
for you so for instance it doesn't at
the moment but at some point the future
we may want to automatically invert the
column ordering on right-to-left systems
you don't have to worry about that it'll
happen for free and it because everyone
is using it it'll happen across the
system
power coupling this is completely
optional if you want to present a flat
file or flat list you can you just don't
turn on for just a hierarchical miss and
you can have it in whatever column you
want there's two different highlight
styles there's the traditional finder
style where it just highlights the bare
minimum around the text or you can have
the band selection like saying the
chooser and you can use whatever
whatever is appropriate for your
interface under platinum it supports
different theme backgrounds so the
default is the finder style with the
light gray background if it's darker
gray for the short column but it also
supports the white style background
might find into the chooser and you can
mix and match that with the highlight
style so you can customize the look a
little bit under aqua it really only has
one team background style white so it
doesn't really apply there but the API
works just the same so you can call the
api to turn off the gray background and
doesn't make any difference on aqua just
a lot basically and one thing that is
coming from aqua back to platinum is the
per column short ordering this is
something that a lot of the third
parties implementations of the style of
interface have done where instead of
having one sort or during ascending
descending that applies regardless of
what column is the sort column it's
track for a comp so you can have the
first column ascending second column
defending and as you switch back and
forth it remembers his sort orderings
there's an example to list see under
platinum with the compy excusing convey
you support some additional features the
most prominent one being alias traversal
because the convey is designed for
navigating through a hierarchy
particularly filesystem hierarchy and
file systems has aliases to other
containers and it doesn't work to be
navigating burrowing down into it and
also get blocks because you hit an alias
it supports traversing down those and
it's smart about it doesn't ask for more
data it just it's already has that
information or if it already has that
container opened it just replicates it
it supports custom preview so for
instance in the finder how it is the
QuickTime preview or the picture preview
in the last column that's supported of
course you have to provide the code that
actually renders in there and do the
tracking in there what's completely
that's screen space is up to you again
you can have variable height the two
highlights valve works there as well
this defaults to advance selections that
you can turn that off and have the
minimal highlight style and again you
can have custom content in your
container in your items I don't want to
have too much detail on the performance
but I know some of you are concerned
about that just again remember the
finder uses it and that services use it
so it has to be very high performance
throw up some numbers here to give you
an example it's very lightweight very
scalable memory usage it only uses as
much memory based on how many items
you've added to to be displayed and as
containers are opened of course those
take a little bit more memory but we've
kept it to a minimum and over the next
few months I'll be working on
performance and may get that down even
more excuse me
how many of you remember your algorithms
class again you don't need to worry
about details just remember it's fast
basic idea here is its does binary
searches internally now this is really
just when your clothes is calling in to
get information about items for instance
is this item selected is this container
opened as your code querying the data
browser state internally data browser is
optimized so you basically order one so
interactions with the user and rendering
is as fast as it possibly can be so this
is all you're really need to remember
it's fast and it's optimized for bulk
operations so if you want to do say
threading retrieval of your items
whether they be filesystem items are
from database you can spawn that off in
a thread and whenever you get a large
enough chunk insert it in one step into
the data browser and that will give you
the best performance so now I want to
talk about the programming model a
little bit and how you can help use it
to help factor your code excusing this
is a new paradigm it's not unique to the
data browser it's very common in various
frameworks power plants Mac App think
class library for those that remember
that and cocoa frameworks are all
oriented around model-view-controller
paradigm basic idea is the controller
code is your framework code it's your
initialization so we throw up your
windows you create your menus and it's
your event dispatching where you take
the raw events this is a mouse click and
you figure out which sub Buick belongs
to and you got it into that data browser
takes on the role of view it's in charge
of presenting your information to the
user putting things on screen and it
takes those raw events of mouse collect
for instance and turns into a semantic
event a double click or a drag on a
particular item and it talks to your
application data which is the really
value out of your application what makes
your application unique and it stores
the items they want to present to the
user again this is you're in charge of
the data storage and the management
caching and whatever you need
take care of their now how do you get
those items into the data browser so
they're displayed as a routine called
add items where you add the references
unique item ids into the data browser
such as there's a one-to-one mapping
between those item ids and the data they
represent the browser uses callbacks to
query information about those items as
it needs it so if an item isn't on
screen it's not going to ask for it text
string because it doesn't need it so you
can take advantage of that in your
caching scheme so once again to
summarize controller code passes of
creates the windows creates the data
browser passes events into the various
views including the data browser the
browser queries your application data as
it needs it and your application data
sends messages back to the data browser
for adding items or changing the state
now Dave browser needs to assume certain
things about your data model and how the
items relate to each other very minimal
set of assumptions but it's basically
defines the structure of the data most
important of those is that each item
have some set of properties these are
defined again by unique IDs there are
some that are predefined in the header
such as is this item access can this
item be selected is this item a
container canvas container be open so
that gives you control over some of the
behaviors and it lets the data browser
communicating in a known language you
can define additional properties for
instance the list view is very freeform
and you know data browser doesn't know
what kind of columns you want to present
that's up to you so each time you create
a column in the list view your defining
a new property so there's a one-to-one
mapping between column and properties
and those are properties you defines and
that you are telling the data browser
gives it some in some additional
information that I have on this item
that I want you to know about and here's
how to query detailed on it but these
are all optional if you don't respond to
the property request data browser
assumes default values
no you really should respond to the
properties that you define or else
nothing's going to put on screen now one
of those important predefined properties
is an item in container this is how you
get the nested look and the hierarchical
miss and you use the container of a
given item when you're adding it so when
you add items to the data browser you
say put it put these items inside this
parent container and that's how it
creates the internal tree just to
summarize data browser source references
not data very fundamental design
decision and it queries information
about the items as it needs it based on
the unique item ids and the property
ideas and everything is optional if you
don't install a call back you don't
respond to a property data browser will
assume and perform for you a default
behavior and moving on to the API that's
a big number 112 API calls but don't let
that intimidate you because I did break
down here most of those calls are just
get set accessors and if you're not
interested in some of those you can
ignore them you just allow you to
customize the behavior and appearance so
it's a very flexible very rich API now a
trend in control manager in general
since this is a control is to move away
from type unsafe structures that you
turn into a void star pointer and
passion via send control message or set
get control data so these are really
just wrappers literally are rappers in
the implementation around get set data
calls but they're typesafe which makes
your code more cleaner more maintainable
less error-prone and the same for on our
side this is over and above the standard
control manager calls for instance size
control move control set control
visibility those work just the same
because it is a control but when you get
right down to it only six calls are
really really need to do a bare-bones
implementation to get just throw some
information on screen so most of those
calls you don't need some of for
instance the configuration manipulation
calls some apply to all view styles with
Alyssa
you or column view for instance turn on
the scrollbar turn off the scroll bar
and some RV South Pacific for instance
the ListView has a notion of a
disclosure column so you can specify the
disclosure com or that doesn't mean
anything to the column view conversely
the column view has a notion of a pack
the police tree does not plus there are
two sets of callbacks are broken into
two pieces there's the high level one to
deal with the standard behaviors and the
low level ones that apply to the custom
content I'll go into those in a moment
plus your standard control manager
callbacks key filter validate input
validation product does work as well now
the standard callbacks the high level
callbacks these are what you're mostly
interested for the standard native type
display types most important of these is
to get set item data this is how the
data browser queries your application
for text strings icons date values to
present on screen again you just provide
raw data data browser take care of the
formatting and it's called get set
because this is also how the data
browser tell you is if the user has
completed and edit operation for
instance users click the check box or
click the pop-up menu menu ordena text
edit this is how they bowed to provide
that information back to you so you can
store it off in your data is item
comparison for sorting you're in charge
of the sorts of operations it just gives
you two item ids and asks for their
relative ordering so if you want to do
secondary tertiary sort orderings that's
up to you if you want to have case
sensitive or case insensitive sorting
that's up to you if you don't install a
comparison call back it provides a
present information in insertion order
so if you're providing a list of stack
elements and you get that for free you
don't even need to install a comparison
routine data browser will notify you of
semantic events on items for instance
double-click container opens things like
items selected and does that via
notification routine there's some drag
and drop handlers for adding i adding
data into a drag again the data browser
sets up the drag but you
to provide meaningful information into
it the drug flavors it you are in charge
of specifying whether a given item is
interested in a drag data brought if you
respond yes you are interested data
browser will take care of highlighting
that it item appropriately to give the
user feedback and when the dragon is
dropped again it's your call to handle
that because data browser doesn't know
what the data is just know something was
dropped on something else and there's a
cleanup operator also help tags is the
follow-on replacements to balloon help
when help is going away their carbon
help tags gives a tool tips kind of
apparent and interaction and data
browser supports that natively then you
need to provide the content but the data
browser will take care of putting it up
on screen and and determining which item
it goes with so you can give help tags
on an item by item basis and salmon
through is contextual menus need to
provide the menu you need to handle the
user's response with just a couple of
routine very good Louisville callbacks
are for custom content if you don't have
custom content you don't need to worry
about these callbacks if you have custom
content you are telling the data browser
I want to be in charge of all rendering
and tracking and hit testing for this
item wherever it may be on screen when
it's on screen data browser will give
you the balance at any given moment when
you need to draw or hit test and a
custom content is used for the preview
column that is a custom content space so
if you don't want to preview calm and
don't install custom content just get
blank column if you do want to present
preview information in the preview
column you need to install custom
callbacks and handle them now it's a
code demonstration of getting a
bare-bones implementation up and running
Johnson's yeah sure that okay so here we
have an application that's basically
basically the minimalist data browser
it's a single column with seven elements
you can select them and click on the
column and reorder them as Jim said we
have no sorts
routine in here so they're in insertion
order so this is your most basic
application let's see what code is
needed to create it actually very little
code was need to create it if you look
at it it's in total about 220 line
without half of those are actually
needed for the data browser itself and
so we're just going to go quickly touch
on what is actually needed for the data
browser this is a carbon event
application so we actually it is a lot
smaller because we don't have to do a
lot of the event handling ourselves it's
between care of automatically so the
first thing we do is we create a window
to put the date browser in we then
create the data browser to fill the
entirety of that window will then
configure the data browser install the
callbacks that are needed by did browser
to communicate with our application and
will populate the data browser with our
item references or item ids which will
be given to the callback to request the
information to be displayed the rest of
the application is basically just
showing the window and run and running
it so the first thing to do is to
configure data browser since data
browser is taking up the entirety of the
window we don't want to have a focus
frame data browser will manage the focus
ring for you if you want one if you have
say to data browsers in a window and you
want to change the focus between them so
in our since we have a single window and
it's taking up the entire contents we
turn it off the second way that we
configure it is data browser installs
columns by filling out a parameter block
Jim will be going into detail about this
parameter block but it's not very hard
to fill out doesn't take very much once
you fill out some parameter blocks with
the details about your column you then
add that column to the data browser and
here we're setting the sort property to
be the first column if you have multiple
columns you can specify which of those
columns you want to be the sort column
initially if you don't set it if nothing
will be highlighted at the very
beginning but as soon as you click on a
header button it will
highlight once you've installed the
column into the data browser he then
into need to install your callback
callbacks are also filled out or
installed via parameter block it's very
simple we only have one call back in
this application which is to actually
get the data from our our data model and
return them to the data browser so we
fill out the parameter block and install
it into the data browser now that that's
done we need to populate the data
browser with our item ids item ids are
entered into data browser by using an
array so here we have a simple array of
seven elements these are actually
indices into a simple string array they
can be anything you want to just you
know numbers or IDs that are one-to-one
mapping to your data model so we create
the array with a seven element and we
store them into data browser and that's
basically all you need to actually
configure data browser itself we do of
course have a one callback which is for
requesting the information from our data
model in this case when data browser
needs to displays information it will
request via callback from our from our
application or our data model using the
item ids passing in an item ID into our
callback this case like i said we have
an array of strings with seven element
so each time the callback is called it
gives an item ID we return a string and
data browser displays it that's
basically it for the application there's
not much to adding data browser to your
application we do have a bit more code
here one of the interesting things is
you can resize data browser by a simple
size control call basically our as our
window resizes we just resize the
control to follow the balance of the
window and that's it very easy to add
you get a lot of features with very
little code anyway here's Jim to the
screen describe the api's and the
callbacks more
Thank You Johnson all right here's the
sequence that Jonathan just demonstrates
you to contribute in display I data
browser pretty straightforward you
create it one call you can figure it
there's a couple of steps there you set
up the format in case the ListView you
need to add your column you saw your
call backs and you populate with your
initial set of items and the last step
is just handling the runtime handling
the callbacks as they're the data
browser dispatches them and routing the
raw event into the data browser I'll
walk you do that here's how you create a
container browser now you notice it's
not using new control control manager is
moving away from that model because
again it's too tight not type safe and
it's based on the notion of code
resources which are not supported in 10
so instead we're moving towards unique
type safe routines for everything you
want to do so it means we have more
api's but it's no different than all the
different structures that were
introduced with the appearance manager
so arguments for this hour window ref
the bounds that you want the initial
view style created a list view or column
view here we're creating a list view and
you get out a control rep pretty
straightforward so there we've done step
step 2 is formatting it now if the
ListView it's a little bit involved but
the basic idea is you create a
parameters of the pram block and you add
your column so the details are really in
that paren block first step is to create
a property you're defining a new
property telling the data browser here's
a new property I know about and I want
you to know about to that involves
defining a property ID it's a unique
identifier is how the data browser
communicates and queries information
about that property you say what visual
information you want displayed for that
property this is where the native types
come in in this case we're displaying
icon and text there's other constants
for a check box pop-up menu etc need to
find some property some behaviors for
the property in this case we want this
column to reflect the selection state so
if you don't if you want certain columns
not to be highlighted when a given item
is highlighted you don't set this flag
for those columns you do if you want all
columns to for say you want a band
selection to go all the way across you
need to set this bit flag for each
column and here we're using the default
column flags they break down into other
constants they control is this called
sortable so you don't want sort
properties just presenting a list and
you don't want the user to be able to
change the sort order and sort is
meaningless so you're presenting a stack
of information and so sort doesn't have
any meaning there so it wouldn't set
that flag but that's included in the
default constant here also controls
whether columnist is movable so if you
want a column to be glued always to the
left and since the finder always has the
first name column glued to the left you
can't move it over to the right they
don't have that flag set
next step is to define some behaviors
and appearances of the ListView header
first part is the sort order again short
order is on per column basis you need to
provide an initial short order provide
the minimum maximum width this is for
column resizing if you don't want to
convey resize to set these two values to
be the same and then the alignment these
are the standard te / default te center
left align right align and this also
affects the appearance of the contents
of that column so the column content and
the header text are aligned next we put
these all together into a column
descriptor the end of steps are column
is a property contains some header
information some formatting information
and a CF string ref that is the text to
put in the in the header button now CF
string refs are the way to communicate
textual information with the control
manager now giving away with pascal
strings because been difficult to
localize your script dependent CF string
rough it's basically a Unicode string so
did browsers unicode capable off the
block and you need to go to some of the
core foundation sessions for learning
more details about how to use CF strings
and then you create the column the last
argument here is the ordinal position
within so you can as you're adding
columns you can specify what position
you want to be in in this case we set a
very large value if you choose a value
that's more than the number of columns
currently in there it just tax it on the
end so we've set up the format and we're
going to install the callbacks again
another parameter
now the k data browser latest callbacks
constant may seem a little odd but
that's a versioning scheme we came up
with so that we can provide backward
compatibility in the future as we need
to if we need to add to the structure
change its formatting maybe change the
callback themselves add new callbacks
replace callbacks change argument
signatures we don't want to break your
apps that you work on now as we need to
make these changes in the future using
this burgeoning scheme will allow us so
the version number maps directly to the
structure of this parameters paren Block
in the future we'll increment that
constant value and next time you
recompile with the new headers that have
that new structure you'll get the new
constant and you may need to do a little
bit of work to adjust to the new
callbacks new layout if you don't want
to you can just revert to the previous
constant value and you'll maintain
binary compatibility we initialize the
structure for now this just sets all the
values to null the UPP s just sets in
the null but at some point we may want
to provide some default callbacks for
you this is how you can get them
basically initialize it to a safe
default value then you set each element
within the structure to your upp that
you create and you install them okay
we're done with step 2 but there is a
step 3 we populate the create an array
of references now again the references
or whatever is meaningful to your
application they can be raw object
pointers C++ object pointers they can be
indices into an array that you maintain
it can be some hash table value whatever
is appropriate the only thing is they
need to always map one-to-one
consistently to the same piece of data
the arguments for the routine here the
data browser reference to the control
ref the parent item as I mentioned this
is how you get the hierarch's goodness
if you want it in the root level of the
list or you have to displaying a flat
list you just say there is no parents
the root item you say how many items are
in the array and the array itself last
argument is a performance opportunity
suppose you create your array in some
sort of order that maps to one of your
sort orderings you can tell the data
browser and if the current sort property
happens to match data browser can save
on some sort operations so they'll make
it add a little bit faster okay we're
almost done excuse me all right yeah all
right I'm only to go over one of the
callbacks the most fundamental one to
get set data as I said this is used both
for retrieving data from your data model
and passing it to at the completion of
an edit that's what the last argument is
for most of the time it'll be set to
false that just means the data browser
says what's the texturing you want me to
display when it sets a true it's saying
here's the text during the user just
entered or the new checkbox' value the
user just entered you need to update
your data store if you don't want to
accept the value that's fine you can put
up a dialog to tell the user sorry
that's an invalid new name or you can't
check this checkbox right now and just
ignore it but the main bulk of this is
just a switch statement on the property
that's being requested you have a case
entry for each property that you are
interested in if you don't want to
respond to a property data browser
assumes a default value you need to
check on whether the data browser is
giving you information or asking for
information but then you just install
the information into an item data
reference it's a reference to the data
that's going to be displayed now if you
don't respond to a property it's
important that you return this error
code because that tells the data browser
give me the default value we're almost
there one last easy step this is your
standard control manager called draw one
control handle control click etc there's
some new one but I'm not going to go
into detail here if you're interested in
them go to the carbon enhancement
sessions
go over them but basically they allow
the data browser to set the cursor for
instance as a user drugs over a
resizable column it will change the
arrow cursor into the bi-directional
resize cursor some routines for doing
drag and drop handling and contextual
menu again go to the carbon enhancement
session if you're interested in those
there's an easier way these carbon
events and you install their standard
event handlers on your window you get
all this for free that's what this the
sample application Jenna Johnson showed
did so that we're done pretty
straightforward you create a data
browser and configure it that's the most
involved step but it's pretty
straightforward to you pop those initial
items and you handle the runtime nowaday
trouser is API is quite stable it's
actually been used by the finder in ten
cents pr2 and there are a couple of
components in Mac OS 9 to use it so
we're pretty confident that it suits
everyone's needs but the data browser
does a lot more than those core services
finder Sherlock etc need for instance
the variable row height custom content
and so we had to make some best guesses
of what reasonable behavior is there
since we don't have any clients that are
really using it that's where we need
your help please use them and give us
feedback if something doesn't work the
way you think it should let us know the
goal of data browsers to do the right
thing as much as possible and save you
from work and do work for you so let us
know if they Tobias can do something
additional to make your life even easier
it's available right now the macros 10
CD you got on Monday video browsers part
of carbon when you use the finder Lister
you're using a data browser it's in
carbon live 1149 only it went through
it's in the d9 release which I don't
think has been posted just yet I think
it was built last week going through
quick looks this week so it should be
posted on the web next week or maybe it
might be there now I haven't looked and
you get through your Apple Developer
connection account the api's are defined
control definition CH again it hasn't me
into the universal releases universal
headers releases but the headers that
come with the developer previews or the
carbon lid seeds it's in there here's
some contact information on again bring
John back up to go over the rest Pacific
Hall if you're if you're working with
data browser and need to get some
feedback through to gym where the team
probably best contact would be to go
through myself with John Glenn Z the
first email address there and there's
also the high level toolbox feedback
high level toolbox feedback email tool
box at apple com and the carbon mailing
list is a great place to basically live
and discuss and keep conversations live
with other carbon developers who are
using data browser documentation address
is there so some related sessions that
you need to think about or consider
attending and these some of them relate
specifically data browser or some of the
api's that have been discussed here
others relate to sort of the aqua
interface and doing the right thing and
that's sort of where data browser fits
in a little bit as well and mostly it's
a pretty self-explanatory but a couple
that i want to call out is just the
carbon event model sessions which
happened on tuesday hopefully you went
to those and if not hopefully get you
some information close to conference
carbon hesitancy in car one and two talk
what's in the API is that Jim referred
to in last few slides and you can get
some info there and then the feedback
forms please come to the high-level
toolbox feedback forms in terms of
getting us feedback on how little box or
the Aqua form terms of feedback on
developer adoption of aqua related
issues so I'd like to invite the team up
on stage for a Q&A if you have any
questions is a few Mike's in the aisle